---
layout: essay
type: essay
published: true
title: Little More than Hello World
date: 2017-09-15
labels:
  - UI Framework
  - Software Engineering
  - HTML
  - IntelliJ
  - CSS
---

## Wow, It's That Easy?##

I remember trying to learn HTML and CSS when I was younger so I could customize a webpage and had the most difficult time doing so. However, fast-forwarding to my third year in college, I really enjoyed my experience with HTML, CSS, and Semantic UI. Having the programming knowledge and ideas that I've learned really help me make connections and understand how HTML, CSS, and Semantic UI.

I enjoyed using Semantic UI the most because of its simplicity and modularity and its ability to produce clean and simple webpages. I recall learning and using Semantic UI or something similar when taking an iOS app design course and didn't really understand it at the time. However, after this class, I have the urge to revisit my old project and see what else I can do now with the knowledge I have now.

## Partner Difficulties##

I had an exceptionally difficult time working with partners in this particular topic. Everyone has stylistic and artistic differences or difficulties implementing it on their own machine. It wasn't an enjoyable experience having to wait and find the missing div tag or figure out why the image is upside down. I'm hopeful however, as we gain more experience as a class, team work will become less debugging and more creation and collaboration. 

## We've Only Broken the Surface##

I am excited to see and utilize all the other features and customizations that are available with Semantic UI and learn the tips and tricks with HTML and CSS in order to create clean and simple webpages. When learning a language like C or C++, it's nice to see that you can generate all the prime numbers less than a million or create a big integer calculator, but it doesn't compare to the feeling of accomplishment of being able to display a website with your own artistic style and design.


