---
layout: essay
type: essay
published: true
title: Configuration Management
date: 2016-09-15
labels:
  - Configuration Management
  - Software Engineering
  - Git
  - Github
---

I recall first learning how to use Git and Github for my Sophomore Project. I recall me doubting the usefulness and disliking the procedure of adding, committing, and pushing files. However, I soon learned in my Junior Project how useful and necessary configuration management really is.

My research for my Junior Project involved writing firmware for three generations of Arduino based weather sensing modules. We worked in one large "Unified" Software Team containing the firmware team, gateway team, and a database/server team. Specifically within, the firmware team there were four people working on the firmware, so clearly configuration management was necessary.

It was important we were clear in communicating what we were working on in order not to step on each other's toes. However, inevitably, mistakes were made and conflicts had to be manually resolved. After several of these incidents, we implemented code reviews through pull requests. We no longer had the privilege to push to the master branch.

After this change of working on our own branches, many more mistakes and bugs were caught. Although frustrating at times, it forced us to make sure our code was the best that it could be and I'm sure saved a lot of headache for us in the long run.

No one is perfect. Therefore no one types perfect code all the time. It is unfortunate in some of the cases, a mistake can break an entire build. If many changes are made, it becomes extremely difficult to pinpoint the cause of the break. With configuration management, you can simply revert to the last working build. However, if configuration management and version control was not used, we would have to painfully debug our code into a working state again.
